ZMK Studio GA announcement (#2627)
zmkfirmware/zmk: docs/blog/2024-11-15-zmk-studio-mvp-ga.mdx

import mode from "./assets/2024-11-15-zmk-studio-mvp-ga/mode.png";
import modeDarkMode from "./assets/2024-11-15-zmk-studio-mvp-ga/mode-dark-mode.png";

import phaseByte from "./assets/2024-11-15-zmk-studio-mvp-ga/phasebyte.png";
import phaseByteDarkMode from "./assets/2024-11-15-zmk-studio-mvp-ga/phasebyte.png";

import deskHero from "./assets/2024-11-15-zmk-studio-mvp-ga/deskhero.webp";
import deskHeroDarkMode from "./assets/2024-11-15-zmk-studio-mvp-ga/deskhero-dark-mode.webp";

import mechlovin from "./assets/2024-11-15-zmk-studio-mvp-ga/mechloving.png";
import mechlovinDarkMode from "./assets/2024-11-15-zmk-studio-mvp-ga/mechlovin-dark-mode.png";

import splitkb from "./assets/2024-11-15-zmk-studio-mvp-ga/splitkb.png";
import splitkbDarkMode from "./assets/2024-11-15-zmk-studio-mvp-ga/splitkb-dark-mode.png";

import keycapsss from "./assets/2024-11-15-zmk-studio-mvp-ga/keycapsss.png";
import keycapsssDarkMode from "./assets/2024-11-15-zmk-studio-mvp-ga/keycapsss-dark-mode.png";

import mekibo from "./assets/2024-11-15-zmk-studio-mvp-ga/mekibo.png";
import mekiboDarkMode from "./assets/2024-11-15-zmk-studio-mvp-ga/mekibo-dark-mode.png";

> I'm delighted to announce that after many months of work, the ZMK Studio MVP has reached General Availability (GA) status. I'm very excited with the feature set and foundation we've gotten into this first release, and equally excited for the upcoming work to add even more features.

Author: Spelled it out the first time here. Good call.

> ZMK Studio provides runtime keymap functionality for ZMK powered devices. It is a combination of major firmware enhancements paired with the new frontend application for interacting with you keyboard to make changes.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
ZMK Studio provides runtime keymap functionality for ZMK powered devices, allowing you to make changes without the need to flash new firmware. It is a combination of major firmware enhancements paired with a new frontend application for interacting with your keyboard.
```

Some rephrasing and a typo

The app is available for compatible browsers, and as an installable desktop application for Linux, macOS, and Windows.

> ![ZMK Studio Application](./assets/2024-11-15-zmk-studio-mvp-ga/zmk-studio-screenshot.png)

Reviewer: Is it possible to have a light mode screenshot when the website is in light mode?

Author: Done.

darkModeImg: deskHeroDarkMode,
url: "https://deskhero.ca/",
},
{
name: "PhaseByte",
img: phaseByte,
url: "https://phasebyte.com/",
},
{
name: "Mechlovin'",
img: mechlovin,
darkModeImg: mechlovinDarkMode,
url: "https://mechlovin.studio/",
},
],
},
{
level: "Additional",
vendors: [
{
name: "splitkb.com",
img: splitkb,
darkModeImg: splitkbDarkMode,
url: "https://splitkb.com/",
},
{
name: "keycapsss",
img: keycapsss,
darkModeImg: keycapsssDarkMode,
url: "https://keycapsss.com/",
},
{
name: "mekibo",
img: mekibo,
darkModeImg: mekiboDarkMode,
url: "https://mekibo.com/",
},
],
},
];

return sponsors.map(g => {
return (

<div>
  <h4>{g.level} Level</h4>
  <div
    style={{
      display: "grid",
      gridTemplateColumns: "repeat(auto-fit, minmax(250px, 1fr))",
      placeItems: "center",
      gap: "2em 2em",
    }}
  >
    {g.vendors.map((v) => {
      return (
        <a href={v.url}>
          <ThemedImage
            alt={v.name}
            style={{ maxHeight: "76px" }}
            sources={{
              light: v.img,
              dark: v.darkModeImg || v.img,
            }}
          />
        </a>
      );
    })}
  </div>
</div>
); }); }())}

## Using ZMK Studio

:::note

> Additional changes are needed to add metadata about the keyboard's physical layouts in order to use ZMK Studio. See the documentation on [physical layouts](https://zmk.dev/docs/development/hardware-integration/physical-layouts#optional-keys-property) for more information.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
For keyboard maintainers, additional changes are needed to add metadata about the keyboard's physical layouts in order to use ZMK Studio. See the documentation on [physical layouts](https://zmk.dev/docs/development/hardware-integration/physical-layouts#optional-keys-property) for more information.
```

Seems like we should distinguish this here.

:::

To use ZMK Studio, you need to have a firmware for your keyboard with the feature enabled, as well as a small keymap change to add an unlock key. See [Building with ZMK Studio](https://zmk.dev/docs/features/studio#building) and [ZMK Studio keymap changes](https://zmk.dev/docs/features/studio#keymap-changes) for more details.

> See [Accessing ZMK Studio](https://zmk.dev/docs/features/studio#accessing-zmk-studio) for more details on the browser and desktop options for using the ZMK Studio application.

Reviewer: I think it would be nice to include a list of the in-tree keyboards which are studio ready here. Then you could say something along the lines of "If you have one of the above keyboards, you can flash it with some new firmware enabling ZMK Studio and use it right now"

Author: Not a bad idea. Added by pulling from the aggregated metadata.

> See [Accessing ZMK Studio](https://zmk.dev/docs/features/studio#accessing-zmk-studio) for more details on the browser and desktop options for using the ZMK Studio application.

Reviewer 2: I think it would be good to note the current caveats (USB/BLE for native/web apps per OS) in this linked section so people can know before trying and failing.

Author: I added a note, but didn't want to duplicate all the full details. Thoughts?

## Next Steps

> The ZMK Studio MVP is truly that, a "minimum viable product", for establishing the core firmware functionality and frontend application infrastructure in order to validate the technology, prove the approaches, and get initial core features into user's hands as early as possible. There are many ZMK features that are still not possible to update in ZMK Studio but have support planned. For a better understanding of where ZMK Studio is today, and where we are headed, please review out the [ZMK Studio capabilities](https://zmk.dev/docs/features/studio#capabilities) table.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The ZMK Studio MVP is truly that, a "minimum viable product". It establishes the core firmware functionality and frontend application infrastructure in order to validate the technology, prove the approaches, and get initial core features into user's hands as early as possible. 
 
 There are many ZMK features that are not yet possible to update in ZMK Studio. For a better understanding of where ZMK Studio is today, and where we are headed, please have a look at the [ZMK Studio capabilities](https://zmk.dev/docs/features/studio#capabilities) table.
```
Couple tweaks, I think this sounds nicer.
